TODO_IDEAS.md, before:

# bugs

- make les output in INFO it's too verbose already

- make sure ipv6 wortks and dns names too for running commands!

- why can i not give a list of deivces to backup like in the run command?

- nw backup router1
  backup up a mikrotik router does not properlyl download the export_compact file created and of course doesn't delete after creation either on the switch - fix that
  mischa@mdx:~/git/narrowin/networka (backup-feature) ✗1 % less /tmp/backups/router1_20251016_150345/export_compact.txt
  mischa@mdx:~/git/narrowin/networka (backup-feature) % cat /tmp/backups/router1_20251016_150345/export_compact.tx
  cat: /tmp/backups/router1_20251016_150345/export_compact.tx: No such file or directory

# To add

- add a summary after creating a backup
- add option to all commands running a remote ssh session to ignore the server ssh key mismatch error and ccontinue
- make output less verbose by not defaulting to INFO output
  is this actually read from ~/.config/networka/config.yaml?
- howto is the config backup path derived?

# To try out

- run networka in gemini-cli interactive shell and see what we can do running in a containerlab

Commit message:

feat: Move supported-types command to config and update shell completions

TODO_IDEAS.md, after:

# bugs

- make les output in INFO it's too verbose already

- make sure ipv6 wortks and dns names too for running commands!

- why can i not give a list of deivces to backup like in the run command?

- nw backup router1
  backup up a mikrotik router does not properlyl download the export_compact file created and of course doesn't delete after creation either on the switch - fix that
  mischa@mdx:~/git/narrowin/networka (backup-feature) ✗1 % less /tmp/backups/router1_20251016_150345/export_compact.txt
  mischa@mdx:~/git/narrowin/networka (backup-feature) % cat /tmp/backups/router1_20251016_150345/export_compact.tx
  cat: /tmp/backups/router1_20251016_150345/export_compact.tx: No such file or directory

# To add

- add a summary after creating a backup
- add option to all commands running a remote ssh session to ignore the server ssh key mismatch error and ccontinue
- make output less verbose by not defaulting to INFO output
  is this actually read from ~/.config/networka/config.yaml?
- howto is the config backup path derived?

# specit
- now check config/sequences/  folder and add for all supportd platforms sequences. before you do that anaylyse what should be addded in sequences and make a document that you can refer to in the future that states the intend and all unified sequences that should be implemented. to get there look at what is there at the moement and check if it is actually following a homogeneous way

# To try out

- run networka in gemini-cli interactive shell and see what we can do running in a containerlab
