docs/getting-started.md, before:

# Installation

## Installation (not on PyPI yet)

Install from GitHub using an isolated tool installer.

```bash
uv tool install git+https://github.com/narrowin/networka.git
# or
pipx install git+https://github.com/narrowin/networka.git
```

Short install video (30s):

[asciinema placeholder – will be embedded here]

## Verify installation

```bash
nw --help
nw --version
```

## Minimal configuration

Create a devices file `config/devices/router1.yml`:

```yaml
host: 192.0.2.10
device_type: mikrotik_routeros
```

Run a command:

```bash
nw run router1 "/system/identity/print"
```

Expected output (trimmed):

```
Executing on router1: /system/identity/print
name="MikroTik"
Command completed successfully
```

See User guide for configuration details.

## Next steps

- Define more devices and groups → Configuration
- Learn how to run common operations → Running commands
- Control formatting and capture outputs → Output modes and Results
- Troubleshooting connection/auth issues → Troubleshooting

Commit message:

Adds automated PyPI publishing and updates installation docs
Introduces automated package publishing to PyPI and TestPyPI through GitHub Actions workflows. Stable releases publish to PyPI while pre-releases go to TestPyPI for testing.

Updates documentation to reflect PyPI availability, adding PyPI as the primary installation method. Fixes package name inconsistency in release notes (net_worker -> networka) and corrects option numbering.

Includes manual publishing tasks for local testing and adds comprehensive PyPI setup documentation for maintainers.

docs/getting-started.md, after:

# Installation

## Quick Install

Install from PyPI using an isolated tool installer.

```bash
# Stable release from PyPI
uv tool install networka

# Latest development from GitHub
uv tool install git+https://github.com/narrowin/networka.git

# Alternative with pipx
pipx install networka
```

Short install video (30s):

[asciinema placeholder – will be embedded here]

## Verify installation

```bash
nw --help
nw --version
```

## Minimal configuration

Create a devices file `config/devices/router1.yml`:

```yaml
host: 192.0.2.10
device_type: mikrotik_routeros
```

Run a command:

```bash
nw run router1 "/system/identity/print"
```

Expected output (trimmed):

```
Executing on router1: /system/identity/print
name="MikroTik"
Command completed successfully
```

See User guide for configuration details.

## Next steps

- Define more devices and groups → Configuration
- Learn how to run common operations → Running commands
- Control formatting and capture outputs → Output modes and Results
- Troubleshooting connection/auth issues → Troubleshooting
