docs/ip-address-support.md, before:

# IP Address Support

Networka lets you target devices directly by IP address (single or comma-separated list) without predefining them in configuration files.

## Usage examples

### Single IP address

```bash
# Run a command
nw run 192.168.1.1 "/system/clock/print" --platform mikrotik_routeros

# SSH to device by IP
nw cli 192.168.1.1 --platform mikrotik_routeros

# Show device info by IP
nw info 192.168.1.1 --platform mikrotik_routeros
```

### Multiple IP addresses

```bash
# Execute command on multiple IPs (comma-separated, no spaces)
nw run "192.168.1.1,192.168.1.2,192.168.1.3" "/system/clock/print" --platform mikrotik_routeros

# SSH to multiple IPs (opens tmux with multiple panes)
nw cli "192.168.1.1,192.168.1.2" --platform mikrotik_routeros

# Mix IPs and configured device names
nw run "192.168.1.1,sw-acc1,192.168.1.2" "/system/clock/print" --platform mikrotik_routeros
```

### With custom port

```bash
nw run 192.168.1.1 "/system/clock/print" --platform mikrotik_routeros --port 2222
```

### Interactive authentication

```bash
# Prompt for credentials at runtime
nw run 192.168.1.1 "/system/clock/print" --platform mikrotik_routeros --interactive-auth
```

## Required parameters

When using IP addresses, you must specify:

- `--platform`: The device type (network driver), e.g. `mikrotik_routeros`, `cisco_iosxe`.

Optional parameters:

- `--port`: SSH port (defaults to 22)
- `--interactive-auth`: Prompt for username/password instead of environment
- `--transport`: Transport driver to use for the session; defaults to configuration or Scrapli. Note: nornir-netmiko is not yet supported but coming soon.

## Supported platforms

- mikrotik_routeros — MikroTik RouterOS
- cisco_iosxe — Cisco IOS-XE
- cisco_iosxr — Cisco IOS-XR
- cisco_nxos — Cisco NX-OS
- juniper_junos — Juniper JunOS
- arista_eos — Arista EOS
- linux — Linux SSH

## Authentication

IP-based connections use the same authentication as configured devices:

1. Environment variables: `NW_USER_DEFAULT` and `NW_PASSWORD_DEFAULT`
2. Interactive mode with `--interactive-auth`
3. SSH keys (via the underlying transport)

## Error handling

If you omit the platform when using IPs:

```text
Error: When using IP addresses, --platform is required
Supported platforms:
  mikrotik_routeros: MikroTik RouterOS
  cisco_iosxe: Cisco IOS-XE
  cisco_iosxr: Cisco IOS-XR
  cisco_nxos: Cisco NX-OS
  juniper_junos: Juniper JunOS
  arista_eos: Arista EOS
  linux: Linux SSH
```

## Implementation details

When IPs are used as the target:

1. Networka detects the IPs in the target argument
2. Creates temporary devices with generated names (e.g. `ip_192_168_1_1`)
3. Applies the specified `--platform` for connection parameters
4. Merges with any configured devices so you can mix both
5. Executes commands as usual and supports results storage

Commit message:

Squashed commit of the following:
docs: automate CLI reference generation and sync documentation

Replace manual documentation workflow with automated CLI reference
generation using Typer's built-in exporter. This ensures documentation
stays synchronized with actual code behavior.

Key changes:
- Add scripts/generate_cli_docs.py to generate CLI docs from Typer
- Implement filtering to exclude hidden commands (__complete) from docs
- Add Taskfile tasks: docs:generate, docs:build, docs:serve
- Remove mkdocs-click dependency in favor of Typer's native exporter
- Regenerate docs/reference/cli.md with complete command descriptions
- Update CLI usage examples to reflect current behavior
- Simplify interactive credentials documentation
- Improve multi-vendor support and IP address documentation

Additional improvements:
- Refactor diff output to use neutral language (identical/differences)
- Use informative status instead of success/error for diff results
- Move supported-types command to config subcommand
- Update shell completions
- Add Nokia SR Linux platform support
- Extend schema with SSH configuration options

Breaking changes:
- Contributors must run `task docs:generate` before committing CLI changes
- mkdocs-click no longer used for documentation generation

This establishes a maintainable workflow where CLI documentation is
generated from source, reviewed in PRs, and kept in sync with code.

docs/ip-address-support.md, after:

# IP Address Support

Networka lets you target devices directly by IP address (single or comma-separated list) without predefining them in configuration files.

## Usage examples

### Single IP address

```bash
# Run a command
nw run 192.168.1.1 "/system/clock/print" --platform mikrotik_routeros

# SSH to device by IP
nw cli 192.168.1.1 --platform mikrotik_routeros

# (Info requires configured device entries; see notes below)
```

### Multiple IP addresses

```bash
# Execute command on multiple IPs (comma-separated, no spaces)
nw run "192.168.1.1,192.168.1.2,192.168.1.3" "/system/clock/print" --platform mikrotik_routeros

# SSH to multiple IPs (opens tmux with multiple panes)
nw cli "192.168.1.1,192.168.1.2" --platform mikrotik_routeros

# Mix IPs and configured device names
nw run "192.168.1.1,sw-acc1,192.168.1.2" "/system/clock/print" --platform mikrotik_routeros
```

### With custom port

```bash
nw run 192.168.1.1 "/system/clock/print" --platform mikrotik_routeros --port 2222
```

### Interactive authentication

```bash
# Prompt for credentials at runtime
nw run 192.168.1.1 "/system/clock/print" --platform mikrotik_routeros --interactive-auth
```

## Required parameters

When using IP addresses, you must specify:

- `--platform`: The device type (network driver), e.g. `mikrotik_routeros`, `cisco_iosxe`.

Optional parameters:

- `--port`: SSH port (defaults to 22)
- `--interactive-auth`: Prompt for username/password instead of environment
- `--transport`: Transport driver to use for the session (supported on `run`/`cli`)

## Supported platforms

- mikrotik_routeros — MikroTik RouterOS
- cisco_iosxe — Cisco IOS-XE
- cisco_iosxr — Cisco IOS-XR
- cisco_nxos — Cisco NX-OS
- juniper_junos — Juniper JunOS
- arista_eos — Arista EOS
- linux — Linux SSH

## Authentication

IP-based connections use the same authentication as configured devices:

1. Environment variables: `NW_USER_DEFAULT` and `NW_PASSWORD_DEFAULT`
2. Interactive mode with `--interactive-auth`
3. SSH keys (via the underlying transport)

## Error handling

If you omit the platform when using IPs:

```text
Error: When using IP addresses, --platform is required
Supported platforms:
  mikrotik_routeros: MikroTik RouterOS
  cisco_iosxe: Cisco IOS-XE
  cisco_iosxr: Cisco IOS-XR
  cisco_nxos: Cisco NX-OS
  juniper_junos: Juniper JunOS
  arista_eos: Arista EOS
  linux: Linux SSH
```

## Implementation details

When IPs are used as the target:

1. Networka detects the IPs in the target argument
2. Creates temporary devices with generated names (e.g. `ip_192_168_1_1`)
3. Applies the specified `--platform` for connection parameters
4. Merges with any configured devices so you can mix both
5. Executes commands as usual and supports results storage

## Limitations

- `nw info` requires preconfigured devices or groups; it does not accept raw IP addresses.
- IP targets are supported on commands that accept the `--platform` option (`nw run`, `nw cli`, and other operations built on the device resolver).
