docs/running-commands.md, before:

# Running commands

Common operations you'll use daily.

## Quick Demo

<div align="center">
  <img src="../assets/gifs/networka-setup.gif" alt="Networka Commands Demo" width="100%" style="max-width: 800px;"/>
  <p><em>See how to execute commands across devices and groups</em></p>
</div>

## Inspect targetsning commands

Common operations you’ll use daily.

## Inspect targets

```bash
# Device info
nw info device1
# Group info
nw info access_switches
# Sequence info
nw info health_check
```

Expected output (device):

```
Device: device1
Host: 192.0.2.10
Port: 22
Credentials: default or interactive
Groups: access_switches
```

## Run commands

```bash
# Single command on a device
nw run device1 "/system/resource/print"

# Run on a group
nw run access_switches "show version"

# Multiple targets
nw run device1,access_switches "/system/identity/print"
```

Expected output (trimmed):

```
Executing on device1: /system/resource/print
uptime=...
free-memory=...
Command completed successfully
```

## Run sequences

```bash
# Predefined sequence on a device
nw run device1 health_check

# On a group
nw run core_switches audit
```

Expected output (trimmed):

```
device1: step 1/3 ... ok
device1: step 2/3 ... ok
device1: step 3/3 ... ok
Sequence completed successfully
```

## Upload and download

```bash
# Upload a file to a device
nw upload device1 firmware.npk

# Download a file from a device
nw download device1 config.backup
```

## Results and formatting

```bash
# Save results
nw run device1 system_info --store-results

# Choose format and target directory
nw run device1 system_info --store-results --results-format json --results-dir ./maintenance

# Adjust output styling
nw info device1 --output-mode raw
```

Notes:
- Use `--results-format json|yaml|txt` to pick a format
- Use `--results-dir <path>` to set an output directory

## Next steps

- See all flags and subcommands → CLI reference
- Store and inspect outputs → Results
- Customize CLI styling → Output modes
- Back up devices across vendors → Backups

Commit message:

Squashed commit of the following:
docs: automate CLI reference generation and sync documentation

Replace manual documentation workflow with automated CLI reference
generation using Typer's built-in exporter. This ensures documentation
stays synchronized with actual code behavior.

Key changes:
- Add scripts/generate_cli_docs.py to generate CLI docs from Typer
- Implement filtering to exclude hidden commands (__complete) from docs
- Add Taskfile tasks: docs:generate, docs:build, docs:serve
- Remove mkdocs-click dependency in favor of Typer's native exporter
- Regenerate docs/reference/cli.md with complete command descriptions
- Update CLI usage examples to reflect current behavior
- Simplify interactive credentials documentation
- Improve multi-vendor support and IP address documentation

Additional improvements:
- Refactor diff output to use neutral language (identical/differences)
- Use informative status instead of success/error for diff results
- Move supported-types command to config subcommand
- Update shell completions
- Add Nokia SR Linux platform support
- Extend schema with SSH configuration options

Breaking changes:
- Contributors must run `task docs:generate` before committing CLI changes
- mkdocs-click no longer used for documentation generation

This establishes a maintainable workflow where CLI documentation is
generated from source, reviewed in PRs, and kept in sync with code.

docs/running-commands.md, after:

# Running commands

## Quick Demo

![Networka Commands Demo](../assets/gifs/networka-setup.gif)

*See how to execute commands across devices and groups.*

## Inspect targets

```bash
# Device info
nw info device1
# Group info
nw info access_switches
# Sequence info
nw info health_check
```

Expected output (device):

```text
Device: device1
Host: 192.0.2.10
Port: 22
Credentials: default or interactive
Groups: access_switches
```

## Run commands

```bash
# Single command on a device
nw run device1 "/system/resource/print"

# Run on a group
nw run access_switches "show version"

# Multiple targets
nw run device1,access_switches "/system/identity/print"
```

Expected output (trimmed):

```text
Executing on device1: /system/resource/print
uptime=...
free-memory=...
Command completed successfully
```

## Run sequences

```bash
# Predefined sequence on a device
nw run device1 health_check

# On a group
nw run core_switches audit
```

Expected output (trimmed):

```text
device1: step 1/3 ... ok
device1: step 2/3 ... ok
device1: step 3/3 ... ok
Sequence completed successfully
```

## Upload and download

```bash
# Upload a file to a device
nw upload device1 firmware.npk

# Download a file from a device
nw download device1 config.backup
```

## Results and formatting

```bash
# Save results for a single run
nw run device1 system_info --store-results

# Override the target directory for this run (format comes from config)
nw run device1 system_info --store-results --results-dir ./maintenance

# Adjust output styling for help/readability
nw info device1 --output-mode raw
```

Notes:

- The results directory defaults to the value in `general.results_dir`; override per run with `--results-dir`.
- Choose the serialization format via `general.results_format` in `config.yml` (txt/json/yaml).

## Next steps

- See all flags and subcommands → CLI reference
- Store and inspect outputs → Results
- Customize CLI styling → Output modes
- Back up devices across vendors → Backups
